http://web.archive.org/web/20080528222844/http://www.daytrotter.com/article/1291/the-mountain-goats-2

The Mountain Goats
A Constant Reminder That People Burn And So Does Time
26 May 2008 

Words by Sean Moeller // Illustration by Johnnie Cluney // Sound engineering
by Patrick Stolley and Shawn Biggs

John Darnielle procures pain and suffering like no other man. And what he does
with it when it's all bundled up, held tight to him like squirmy prisoners is
that he lets all of it play together. He introduces one to the other and
watches them, taking meticulous notes, finding that when one sufferer starts
mixing with another, they create another thing entirely - a red and yellow
makes blue sort of thing. The right pain and the right sufferer can make a new
life that might be mistaken for a version of the grass finally getting greener
on their side of the fence. The characters in his hundreds and hundreds of
songs sometimes find that certain pains are addictive and restorative, keeping
them interested and getting them back to normality. ... [Story Continues
Below]

First song
San Bernardino (Mountain Goats) [3.03MB] [1799 downloads]

  - original version appears on Heretic Pride
  I have great personal fondness for this song so I'm going to leave the
  lyrics to speak for themselves. Instead, let me tell you about how it came
  to be the way it is. One day I was sitting on the floor of the office I keep
  here in Durham, monkeying around with a book of guitar tunings. I'm pretty
  sure that the tuning I was playing with was a Jimmy Page tuning, possibly
  the one he uses on "The Rain Song." I don't remember the tuning string for
  string, but I know that everything was tuned way down — E down two whole
  steps, etc. On the Froggy Bottom guitar I was using, which by the way is a
  miraculous and wonderful guitar, it was possible to play in this tuning but
  just barely — too much action and you'd knock something out of tune. On the
  demo I recorded, you could hear the loosened strings responding to their
  lowered tension - wwwwowwww, wwwwwowwwww, wwwwwwowwwwww. I had a real dread
  of trying to get this one right in the studio, so I got the idea to send it
  to Erik Friedlander for arrangement, and he did the incredible thing we're
  honored to have on Heretic Pride. During the west coast tour, though, I was
  monkeying around at soundcheck, and I thought: "Well — the voicing won't be
  the same, but couldn't the song still be sung just using straight chords?"
  We worked it up for trio, and I was reminded that I really enjoy singing it,
  which is how I wound up doing it at this session. My enjoyment of singing it
  causes me to oversing a bit on the first verse here, I think. What can you
  do, though? I am a somewhat excitable dude.

Second song
02-75 (Mountain Goats) [2.10MB] [1837 downloads]

  — unreleased
  There's a whole story behind this song, and what it means, and it's a true
  story and a personal one, which is why I'm averse to telling it. You know
  those tiresome old cranks who bemoan the death of the private sphere on the
  editorial page of the Sunday Times? I am one of them. At the same time, I
  have blurry personal boundaries just like pretty much every other musician
  I've ever known, with the exception of Erik Friedlander, who seems not to
  have been touched by the "we're all kinda stupid and also crazy" bug that
  got the rest of us when we were still young and helpless. Bless the Holy
  Name of God for your good fortune, Erik! Anyhow. My girlfriend's post office
  box when she went to Grinnell College in Iowa was box number 02-75. I used
  to write her there before we had met. She used to write me back. Once she
  sent me a papier-mache'd cow that was totally cool and awesome. She is not
  my girlfriend any more; she's my wife. As of 2008 we will have been together
  for thirteen years. Knock wood, right? This was the first song I wrote for
  her.

Third song
Raja Vocative (Mountain Goats) [1.75MB] [1626 downloads]

  - original version appears on Ghana
  If you want to know a secret about this song I will tell you one. It is a
  heavily-coded response to some personal pain I was going through when I
  wrote it. There is maybe one person alive who would be able to do the
  decoding necessary to get at the truth of the matter, and she isn't talking.

Fourth song
There Will Be No Divorce (Mountain Goats) [2.80MB] [1694 downloads]

  - original version appears on The Coroner's Gambit
  I wrote this one when we lived in Colo, Iowa, which is a town no-one reading
  this will ever see. 775 people lived there and we were two of them. Our
  house was tiny and the pipes froze every winter; one winter they burst. We
  ate a lot of potatoes because they were cheap, and I taught myself to bake
  bread from scratch. We were young in our love and not yet married and there
  was a shack behind the house where I'd experiment with my boombox and my
  guitar to see what different sort of atmospheres I could get on tape. "There
  Will Be No Divorce" was one of the songs on The Coroner's Gambit that took a
  long time to get right, and the final version was recorded in that little
  shack on a rainy day. Originally it was a much more uptempo song than the
  one I ended up doing that day; it had a sort of vaguely half-rockabilly
  feel. It sounded, I mean, more like the one I played at this session.

It can be their balm, a way to wash over some chapped part of life. Darnielle
and his recording name, The Mountain Goats, is a jittery guy both in person
and as he sings, giving so much of the immediate state of the mood in
everything he does. His words - the ones that are obvious and the ones that
are beyond cryptic - are full of every color known to man, though there is a
lien on the blues and the reds. There's sorrow and extreme passion in all of
the personal and completely fictitious storylines that have historically
portrayed the lives of people dealing with skeletons and with each other in
circumstances that are adverse in the strongest meaning of the word. The
characters are at their wits ends, they are screaming at the top of their
lungs, they are tearing their hair out, they are dismayed by words and
actions, they are without options - or so they believe. They are thinking out
loud, just letting the pent up storm clouds build and bulk into menacing
thunderheads, opening the dams so the blackened hearts can spill out like
ticker tape. These people that Darnielle has created are burning. The couple
that has been a mainstay in a vast number of songs probably wouldn't look it
from the outside - if they were real, in fact. They would be your regular
couple, going through some sour spells, but nothing that they can't handle.
They've stayed together and for most people, that's the ultimate sign that
things have a way of working themselves out, that those involved have
everything under control. They might even be envied for sticking it out so
long. These are commendable virtues, ones that are happily passed down through
the generations, just as when a boy's great-great-grandfather was a farmer,
his great grandfather was a farmer, his grandfather was a farmer and his
father was a farmer. He most certainly should try to be - and is encouraged -
to be a farmer. It's said to be in the blood. Well, those who come from
families without divorce and visible problems tend to look at anything
otherwise as failure, so they wipe up the misery with super absorbance and
just keep mowing the lawn and sleeping in the same bed as their hated nemesis,
who used to be the sweetest lover. As Darnielle shows over and over again -
with simple chords and familiar strummed and complicated words of descriptive
force, as if they were made out of impossible knowledge and voltage - there is
no one way to handle a relationship. There are a few right ways, perhaps, but
there is an endless supply of wrong ways. At his deepest depths, Darnielle is
a romantic, if there ever was one. He cares so much for these troubled people
he's manifested out of thin air. He probably even cries for them after some
episodes. They ache and work and slug it out, still finding themselves there
at the end of the day, every day for the one that they vowed themselves to.
The Mountain Goats discography is a staggering and fascinating documentation
of the difficulties that two normal, regular people can find in love and the
dissolution of it. One of the things that I wanted to ask Darnielle this week
as an appendix to this piece was an absurd, random question: What passage of
Joan Didion's The Year of Magical Thinking did you underline? There's a chance
that he's never read it and the only reason the text even applies to the
abstract thinking being done here is its gentle notions of love and marriage
that the master Didion shares in her autobiographical book detailing her
husband, John Gregory Dunne's 2003 death. There's one passage toward the end
that seems to fit with the ways that Darnielle imagines his characters - these
feuding and loving people, even if they don't have the healthy relationship
that Didion and Dunne did for over 40 years. He might have underlined it, if
he does that with books.

"This will not be a story in which the death of the husband or wife becomes
what amounts to the credit sequence for a new life, a catalyst for the
discovery that (a point typically introduced in such account by the precocious
child of the bereaved) "you can love more than one person." Of course you can,
but marriage is something different. Marriage is memory, marriage is time.
"She didn't know the songs," I recall being told that a friend of a friend had
said after an attempt to repeat the experience. Marriage is not only time: it
is also, paradoxically, the denial of time. For forty years I saw myself
through John's eyes. I did not age. This year for the first time since I was
twenty-nine I saw myself through the eyes of others."

Darnielle keeps people together for the long haul because that's when it gets
harder to leave and that's also supposed to be when it gets easier to feel at
home. When that doesn't happen, we have intrigue. We get people who you could
look into their mouths, like a dentist would, and see roaring fires licking up
over those tonsils and wisdom teeth.
