Attic:
    Items found in the attic are still being deloused/categorized/dusted for
    prints. As said items include a reel of Super-8 film which is presently
    undergoing reconditioning for digital transfer, the reader is encouraged
    to check this room again sometime within the next week.

Bathroom:
    Ativan (in the medication cabinet):

    __Medication information: Ativan (lorazepam)__

    Your doctor has prescribed for you Ativan. Ativan is classified as an
    antianxiety agent and the potential for abuse is identified as __high__.
    Uses for Ativan include but are not limited to: relief of anxiety, relief
    of insomnia, reduction of symptoms common to and associated with severe
    alcohol withdrawal.

    It is very important to follow your doctor's instructions with regard to
    this medication! Improper use of Ativan can result in liver & kidney
    damage, insomnia, extreme agitation, and impaired judgement. Instructions
    for use:

    1. Take with food.

    2. Unless otherwise instructed, finish all medication.

    3. Be kind to your family, since they are the ones who really understand
    you.

    4. Report all unusual symptoms to your physician *__immediately__*,
    especially in case of: clumsiness, dizziness, sleepiness, unsteadiness, or
    weakness, convulsions, hallucinations, memory loss, trouble breathing or
    staggering/trembling.

    Librium (in the medication cabinet):

    __Medication Information: chlordiazepoxide (generic for Librium)__

    Your doctor has prescribed for you chlordiazepoxide. Chlordiazepoxide is
    classified as an antianxiety agent and as such should be taken only when
    the pressure is really beginning to get to you. Contraindications for
    chlordiazepoxide include but are not limited to: daily alcohol intake
    equal to or above two drinks per day, a history of severe alcohol abuse,
    or stated intent to take up heavy drinking on a daily basis.

    It is very important to follow your doctor's instructions with regard to
    this medication! Improper use of chlordiazepoxide can result in a whole
    host of unfortunate events too regrettable to detail here. Instructions
    for use:

    1. Take with food.

    2. Unless otherwise ordered, take all medication as ordered.

    3. __Do not take chlordiazepoxide if your work requires that you drive long
    distances or operate heavy machinery.__

    4. If at first you don't succeed, __try, try again__.

Bedroom:
    Annihilate pamphlet (on the duffel bag):

    __Annihilate Yourself!__
    
    THE BIRDS are whistling in the trees, melodies from before the hills
    themselves were formed. The magnolia blushes & blooms: all systems go! and
    we are buried beneath three thousand different recurring dreams, several
    new ones for each day of the year. Al Green is singing that song again.
    His joy exceeds all limitations. God is with him.
    
    Annihilate yourself!
    
    The hurricanes will never come this year. The trawlers will come in from
    the ocean all fat with fish, and in the high glass restaurants dotting
    the shore the tourists will overfeed themselves, then drift off to sleep
    at their tables. Someday they will all be shot where they stand. Our
    Lord Jesus Christ has split for Massachusetts which was what his ticket
    read in the first place. There has been a mixup at the station. He will
    not be coming back here. You can bet on it.
    
    Annihilate yourself!
    
    The guy down at the Liquor Emporium is named George. His love is as
    bottomless as the ocean. His heart beats in sync with the constant
    westward bending of the palms: leaning. Rising. Listing. Recovering.
    Recovering. Recovering. Recovering.
    
    Annihilate yourself!
    
    Child of God, your number is up! We will never make it back to Arizona
    now. There isn't anybody out in Arizona anyway. Everybody's heading east
    for the holidays again.  Your timing is off. This is news to no-one, that
    your timing is bad.  What's news to you is that it's getting worse. You'll
    show up when you're least expected where you're most unwanted. Nothing
    personal! Nothing personal. The breeze is keening in the high trees but
    this is nothing personal. The time draws close and it's all coming to a
    head but this is nothing personal. You will regret receiving this
    pamphlet, but you will not forget what you did with it. Ever. Believe me.
    
    __Annihilate yourself!__

    Sheets:

    (animated images, including text: HONOR OBEY DESTROY LOVE)

Cellar:
    (animated images, including text listed below:)

    In all this, there is no one to lend me support except Michael your
    Prince, on whom I rely to give me support and reinforce me. And now I
    shall tell you the truth about these things.

        --- Daniel 10:21 -- 11:2

    hello Jonah
    hello whale

    The two kings, seated at one table, hearts bent on evil, will tell their
    lies; but they will not have their way, for the appointed time is still to
    come. Then the wretch will return greatly enriched to his own country, his
    heart set against the holy covenant; he will take action and then return
    to his own country. In due time, he will make his way southwards again,
    but this time the outcome will not be as before. The ships of the Kittim
    will oppose him, and he will be worsted. He will retire and take furious
    action against the holy covenant and, as before, will favor those who
    forsake the holy covenant.

        --- Daniel 11:27--20

    I am your future and I am going to eat you alive
    all right then

    This is what the Lord God showed to me:
    there was a swarm of locusts
    when the second crop was sprouting,
    full-grown locusts, after the king's hay had been cut.
    When they had eaten all the grass in the land,
    I said, "Lord God, forgive, I beg You.
    How can Jacob survive, being so small?"

        --- Amos 7:1--2

    can I bring my friend
    no

    Disaster for those who long for the Day of the Lord!
    What will the Day of the Lord mean for you?
    It will mean darkness, not light,
    as when someone runs away from a lion,
    only to meet a bear;
    he goes into the house and puts his hand on the wall,
    only for a snake to bite him.
    Will not the Day of the Lord be darkness, not light,
    totally dark, without a ray of light?

        --- Amos 5:18--20

    get ready now
    OK goodbye

    The waters round me rose to my neck,
    the deep was closing round me,
    seaweed twining round my head.
    To the roots of the mountains,
    I sank into the underworld,
    and its bars closed round me forever.

        --- Jonah 2:6--7

    We spent our season in the cellar
    when the heat had overcome us;
    me hiding in your arms,
    you resting in mine.
    However you like.

Garden:
    the Seven Deadly Grains and the Four Cardinal Vines

    Grain 1:

    THE SEVEN DEADLY GRAINS

    I. *Pelops trichiniolis*

    Grown by the Anasazi since time immemorial, *Pelops trichiniolis*'s great
    potential as a weapon has heretofore been severely compromised by
    tradition, which holds that its stunted oblong grains should only be used
    for inflicting self-harm. While the grains are said to be delicious and
    slightly toothsome when boiled in salted water, those few who have
    survived the eating thereof report that no taste, however savory, could be
    worth the lasting effects that *Pelops trichiniolis* takes on on [sic] the
    gastrointestinal tract.

    N^o two -->

    Grain 2:

    THE SEVEN DEADLY GRAINS

    II. Mary's Return

    An heirloom tomato first recorded in western Massachusetts by the Finns in
    precolonial times, Mary's Return remains unclassified by botanists, few of
    whom are willing ot court the risk that proper study of the plant would
    entail. If the seeds are separated completely from the fruit's firm flesh,
    it makes an excellent sauce tomato. Should any seeds be overlooked in the
    cleaning, however, it is worth noting that no remedy exists for the poison
    contained in the seeds' endosperm, and the toxin targets the central
    nervous system with remarkable and unerring precision.

    N^o three -->

    Grain 3:

    THE SEVEN DEADLY GRAINS

    III. Alabama ur-japonica

    Instrumental in the development of the nutty-flavored gourmet rice sold as
    Japonica or "black rice," this somewhat uglier strain is delicious to
    human beings but kills any wildlife who come into contact with it. While
    rural farmers still prefer it, rice growers closer to populated areas
    report that the adverse publicity associated with crop fields thick with
    the corpses of crows, rabbits, pigeons, possums, deer, mice, *et cetera*,
    offsets any benefits that the plant's self-contained pan-pesticide might
    offer.

    N^o four -->

    Grain 4:

    THE SEVEN DEADLY GRAINS

    IV. *Juniperis chinensis*

    Not technically deadly nor a grain, but important enough in both of our
    lives to qualify for includion here. When you have been down to Hell you
    will understand.

    N^o five -->

    Grain 5:

    THE SEVEN DEADLY GRAINS

    V. Western Bright-thorn

    Prospectors in the Black Hill of South Dakota sent specimens of this plant
    to California with their wives, expecting to join them there after
    striking it rich. Its flowers make excellent dyes when in bloom, but once
    gone to seed go white like dandelions and disperse easily in the wind.
    This is problematic because the seeds at the end of each soft white downy
    wisp are sharp enough to lacerate one's cornea, which they seem to seek
    out almost willfully. Cultivation of Western Bright-thorn in most states
    is restricted by law to indoor conditions.

    N^o six -->

    Grain 6:

    (unavailable)

    Grain 7:

    (unavailable)

    Vines:

    *Enrich your landscape and empower the needy with*

    *the Four Cardinal Vines*

    1. *Tolerance*. Go ahead, prune it if you think it'll make you feel
    better. Apply some herbicine, or plant invasive hairy vetch to try and
    choke this baby out. Cut back the creepers or run over them with a lawn
    mower. Claw at the roots with your bare hands if you must. *Once in,
    always in!* said an 1837 circular found still wheat-pasted to the wall of
    a long-abandoned seed supply company out near Jacksonville. Will eat your
    house eventually if your faith is strong enough. *Give glory to God in the
    highest, and peace to His people on earth.*

    2. *Forbearance*. The whole point of this magnificent vine is not the
    slick Chinese jad-green foliage that dazzles the eye as it is the utter
    pointlessness of even planting it in the first place. The first spring,
    enjoy its all-covering opulence! Thereafter, no amount of fertilization,
    accommodation, improved lighting conditions, or consultation with experts
    will stop Forbearance from reducing itself by half. And so again the next
    year, and again the next. *Good friend to dig the dust enclosed here* and
    whatnot. Half-remembered rhymes & ill-forgotten vines for these best new
    grasping times. *Selah*.

    3. *Noncompliance*. Deep down in your hear you know you're right. All your
    friends say you're wrong, or they used to until they got tired of telling
    you so. WHat do they know? And what about us? Let's not get greedy here:
    there is plenty of blame to spread around. Come friends, come foes, and
    sup at the bounteous horn of noncompliance. Its flowers burst from its
    roots: when we accidentally uncover them with a careless bootheel crushing
    out a cigarette butt, we are stunned. It's such a pretty flower! Why has
    nature preordained that it grow underground, away from the light? *Ours
    not to reason why*. You don't even want to hear the end of that one,
    brother.

    4. *Incandescence*. Unremarkable when green, except that it hangs all
    thick and heavy around the things it climbs. Highly combustible when it
    dries out around the end of October. Matches are free at most bars and you
    can pocket several books of them before anybody even notices you've come
    through the door. *My house shall be called a house of prayer for all
    people*. Our own personal virtue is that we know we'll look real smart if
    people just see us in the right light. Ha. Ha. Ha. Ha. Ha.

Kitchen:
    Alcoholism quiz:

    Are You An Alcoholic?

    This simple quiz may help you answer the question, "Am I an alcoholic?"
    Give yourself one point for each "yes" answer.

    1. Do you lose time from work due to your drinking?
    2. Is drinking making your home life unhappy?
    3. Do you drink because you are shy with other people?
    4. Is drinking affecting your reputation?
    5. Have you ever felt remorse after drinking?
    6. Do you confuse memories of things that have actually happened to you
    with things that you've seen happen to other people on T.V.?
    7. Have you gotten into financial difficulties as a result of your
    drinking?
    8. Do you turn to lower companions and an inferior environment when
    drinking?
    9. Have you ever decided to stop drinking for a week or so, but only
    lasted for a couple of days?
    10. Are there periods of time for which you cannot account, no matter how
    hard you try?
    11. Do you wish people would mind their own business about your drinking
    --- stop telling you what to do?
    12. Has your ambition decreased since drinking?
    13. Have you had to have an eye-opener upon awakening during the past
    year?
    14. Do you envy people who can drink without getting into trouble?
    15. Do you ever try to get "extra" drinks at a party because you do not
    get enough?
    16. Do you sometimes "skip" breakfast or lunch so that you'll have more
    money to spend on drinks?
    17. In arguments, do people quickly concede your point rather than risk
    having to deal with you when you've gotten overexcited?
    18. Has the distinction between drinking alone and drinking with others
    become so badly blurred that you can no longer tell the difference?
    19. Do you tell youself you can stop drinking any time you want to, even
    though you keep getting drunk when you don't mean to?
    20. Are there no longer times when you really don't mean to get drunk?
    21. Do you love me?
    22. Do you drink to build up your self-confidence?
    23. No, really: do you love me?
    
    __Scoring__

    __0--3__: Risk __low__. Even people with no risk of alcoholism sometimes
    encounter alcohol-related difficulties.

    __4--10__: Risk __moderate__. Alcohol has probably gotten you into more
    trouble than you'd like. The possibility that this trend will continue is
    *high* unless action is taken soon.

    __11--20__: Risk __high__. even you are no longer persuaded by the
    explanations you give for your drinking. Seek help from someplace other
    than the place where you usually go when you need help.

    __21--23__: Risk __null__. You have ascended the high mountain and are now
    beyond the kenning of normal men. Any advice we might offer you would be
    wholly redundant.

    Alcoholism progression:

    (diagram detailing the process and symptoms of alcohol abuse from start
    through recovery)

    Police suicide evaluation form:

    TALLAHASSEE POLICE DEPARTMENT
    SUICIDE EVALUATION FORM

    Defendant: <scrawled>
    Case #: 2104710
    Date/Time: 11/05/02
    Charge: Disturbing the peace

    OBSERVATIONS OF DEFENDANT

    [x] Sad         [x] Wringing Hands              [x] Alcohol Use
    [ ] Tired       [x] Poor Eye Contact            [x] Drug use
    [x] Irritable   [x] Unresponsive to Questions
    [x] Pacing      [ ] Complaining of Illness
    [x] Unemployed  [ ] Age 22 or younger
    [ ] No Spouse   [ ] Protective Custody

    QUESTIONS ASKED OF DEFENDANT
    [x] Are you dependent on alcohol or drugs?
    [ ] Have you attempted suicide in the past?
    [ ] Are you contemplating suicide now?

    EVALUATION
    Evaluating officers Signature <signature>

    Count the number of boxes checked and check the appropriate range below.
    [ ] Low Risk (0--4)         [ ] Medium Risk (5--8)
    [x] High Risk (9--14)       [ ] Very High Risk (15--17)

    ADDITIONAL COMMENTS

Living Room:
    Now How Much Would You Pay (in television, linked as gameshow.html):

    (short film with the tone of a game show)

    Panthers (in teddy bear):

    *Respect to the organization! Submitted below for the edification and
    amusement of the Party, a brief history of the National Hockey League team
    the Florida Panthers as seen from a revolutionary perspective.*

    Power to the people. In 1992, toward the end of a century marked by an
    increasingly cunning ruling class and a generally passive if occasionally
    agitated proletariat, capitalist robber-baron H. Wayne Huizenga tightened
    his stranglehold around the collective neck of the working masses by
    increasing his holdings to include a National Hockey League expansion
    franchise. In a cruel stroke of imperialist arrogance, Huizenga named his
    team the "Florida Panthers." The team's namesake, both native and unique
    to the state after which it was named, had been living at the margins of
    viability for the better part of a century; hunted to near-extinction in
    post-Civil War times by innumerable incoming opportunist carpetbaggers
    (possible role-models for counting-house Huizenga and his ilk), it now
    took shelter in hidden places and supped on such scraps as it could find,
    biding its time. Its suitability as an emblem of the Struggle is clear.

    The Panthers' first season of play began on 6 October, 1993, in Chicago,
    Illinois, traditionally a stronghold of Big Labor, although decades of
    compromise with upper management and corruption at the higher levels of
    leadership had made the once-proud city a shell of its formerly
    progressive self. The overall weakness of the American labor movement was
    never more evident than in the performance of the Chicago Blackhawks that
    evening, who could muster no better than a 4 - 4 tie against a team that
    had never even taken the ice before in regulation play. The Panthers,
    meanwhile, led by working class hero Rob Niedermeyer and defended by young
    labor’s bright hope John Vanbiesbrouck, acquitted themselves quite nimbly
    for a team whose players earned a mere fraction of their nightly earning
    power, yet whose income for the first year alone would provide its owners
    with enough Cristal and beachfront properties to last well into the next
    millennium.

    "Respect was uppermost on my mind when I came to Miami," said
    Vanbiesbrouck, recalling his early days with the Florida Panthers. "The
    new group of us were united in wanting to prove to the rest of the league
    -- and one another -- that we could play at a competitive level with the
    rest even though we were a new, expansion team." It's not hard to decode
    Vanbiesbrouck's remarks: terms like "respect" and "united" and the
    Beezer's characterization of his team as "new" and "expansion" are veiled
    references to the covertly revolutionary nature of his organization. 

    In their first season the Panthers would register thirty-three victories
    and thirty-four losses, with some seventeen tie games in overtime rounding
    out their eighty-four game season. It was an auspicious beginning, and the
    message traveled along the grapevine that the time was short for the
    enemies of the people in southern Florida. Disappointingly, the plans of
    the Florida Panthers to lead a general uprising against the market economy
    and its crippling carrot-stick techniques would never materialize, and
    their brave beginnings, shrouded in secrecy and unknown by all save the
    most hidden layers of labor resistance, would be lost to history.

    Yet there remains the hope that the Florida Panthers, once a sleeping cell
    of strength and struggle, will rise from their shackles of luxuriant
    contracts and idle wealth and make good on the possibility they once
    seemed to exude. And while to date the team's most revolutionary act has
    been to make its owners and shareholders embarassingly rich --- an act
    which admittedly seems more sympathetic to the concerns of the bourgeoisie
    than to the historical struggle of the people for self-determination ---
    in the hearts and minds of the masses, from the telemarketing offices of
    Miami to the tracklit dance floors of Orlando, the dream remains: of a
    hockey team that would liberate the working man from his capitalist
    prison, demonstrating through innovative use of the three-on-three
    forecheck that the means of production rests with those who wield the
    implements of labor.

    Long live the revolutionary struggle of the people! *Long live the Florida
    Panthers!*

Porch:
    Letter (next to wine bottle, titled Ray's Fine Liquors):

    Dear <blacked out>

    Hi you guys. Listen, even though it's only been six months or so since you
    came to town, I feel like we know each other pretty well, so I'm going to
    speak openly with you and I hope that's OK.

    It's hard to write this letter because it goes against most of what people
    teach you when you're first starting up a business: "the customer's always
    right," don't say anything that might cause people to take their business
    elsewhere, etc. But over the course of your nightly visits to my store
    over the past half-year or so I've come to think of you both as something
    more than customers, and so I think it's only right that I share my
    concerns with you both. Of course I am delighted at the spike in business
    I've enjoyed since you started buying from me. But there is only so much
    drinking you can do before it starts to take a toll on your health, and
    I'm worried that you might be closer to that tollbridge than you think. If
    you were to cross it: well! You see how there's a kind of goose/golden egg
    thing going on here for me.

    So I hope you won't think I'm being nosy when I say that even though it'll
    mean a little less money for me --- OK, frankly, a lot less money for me
    --- I'd be happier if you tried switching from brandy to beer or
    something. Taking a little break. Maybe just on Tuesdays, I don't know. I
    think in the end you'll both find yourselves happier, too, and that would
    please me even more than all the extra money I've made since you two came
    to town.

    Just something to think about. Again I hope you won't think I'm speaking
    out of turn. If you do --- well, forget I said anything, then, and I'll
    see you tomorrow! :)
    
    Best wishes

    <signature: Ray>

    Ray Battaglia
    Owner & Sole Proprieter, Ray's Fine Liquors

    Today (on table):

    *Just for today ...*

    *Just for today* I will try to live through this day only, and not tackle
    my whole life problem at once. I can do something for twelve hours that
    would appall me if I felt that I had to keep it up for a lifetime.

    *Just for today* I will be happy. Most folks are as happy as they make up
    their minds to be.

    *Just for today* I will adjust myself to what is, and not try to adjust
    everything to my own desires. I will take my 'luck' as it comes, and fit
    myself to it.

    *Just for today* I will try to strengthen my mind. I will study. I will
    learn something useful. I will not be a mental loafer. I will read
    something that requires effort, thought and concentration.

    *Just for today* I will exercise my soul in three ways: I will do somebody
    a good turn, and not get found out; if anybody knows of it, it will not
    count. I will do at least two things I don't want to do --- just for the
    exercise. I will not show anyone that my feelings are hurt, they may be
    hurt, but today I will not show it.

    *Just for today* I will be agreeable. I will look as well as I can, dress
    becomingly, talk low, act courteously, criticise not one bit, not find
    fault with anything and not try to improve or regulate anybody except
    myself.

    *Just for today* I will have a program. I may not follow it exactly, but I
    will have it. I will save myself from two pests: hurry and indecision.

    *Just for today* I will have a quiet half hour all by myself and relax.
    During this half hour sometime, I will try and get a better perspective of
    my life.

    *Just for today* I will be unafraid. Especially I will not be afraid to
    enjoy what is beautiful, and to believe that as I give to the world, so
    the world will give to me.

    Alcohol (glass):

    (mixed historical images in series against alcohol abuse)

Front Yard:
    Peacock:

    *The Shocking Truth About Peacocks*

    Peacocks have a highly developed language, and are thought by many
    scientists to be the only animal besides man capable of expressing itself
    abstractly.

    In prehistoric cultures the peacock has been observed to hold totemic
    status. Archaeological evidence strongly suggests that several American
    communities prior to the continental drift considered the peacock an omen
    of death or disaster, and left ablutions at the entrances to their
    dwelling-places before retiring to sleep nightly.

    Between 1970 and 1978, peacocks were directly or indirectly responsible
    for no fewer than 37 deaths in the upper Ohio Valley --- more than any
    other animal, predator or prey, in the same region during the same
    timespan.

    Some peacock mating rituals can take as long as one full calendar year.

    Peacocks mate for life, but one mate will often attempt to kill the other
    just prior to migration.

    Contrary to popular belief, peacocks do not eat their young.

    However it is generally conceded that peacocks are scavengers, and will
    submit wholly on carrion for whole seasons at a time. Many once-prominent
    aviculturalists have left the profession entirely after tending to
    peacocks through several seasons. The turnover race within the profession
    is equalled only by that of severe trauma wards in urban hospitals.
