intro:
    WE
    SHALL
    ALL
    BE
    HEALED

    The following pages constitute the basic texts of a new religion that
    never quite got off the ground. It had no name, but it did manage to claim
    a few victims in its heyday, and it still reins in the occasional stray
    cur whose good heart does not quite function properly. As you explore
    these pages, save a thought for our friends who did not make it out the
    other side of the machine. *Bonne chance*.

    Directions: scroll your mouse across each page. Click on the things that
    change when your cursor passes over them. Follow the signs to get back to
    the main page. Turn off the computer to escape from the maze if you like,
    only it won't work. Sorry. After some discussion we thought it best to be
    upfront with you about that.

    CLICK HERE TO ENTER

main:
    song (in boombox): Palmcorder Yajna
    camera: Lion's Mouth
    video: Letter from Belgium
    book: Eva
    filmstrip: Bells
    sketch: Dan
    recherche (in keyboard): New Belgians

Song:
    "Palmcorder Yajna" 

    [ 160 kbps mp3 ] [ 160kbps AAC ] 

    control-click or right-click to save files to your computer 

Camera:
    [text accompanied by photos, paginated]

    tracy who lived upstairs came down and asked what i had planned for the
    rest of the evening 

    some nights you can just feel the excitement and I do mean excitement

    so i'm all "i don't know tracy what are you doing" and tracy's like "oh
    you know i thought i'd go out you know here and there"

    and it shakes out that we'll both be going to the same club and it's
    already getting to be about that time 

    clothes by givenchy, hair by sarah, body by some anonymous chemist up on
    the far northeast side:

    ok   let's go 

    and as time rushes past and around and through us like a chill wind, tracy
    remembers that he wants to see some guy in the bath house, and that's how
    we wound up in there somewhere between midnight and two a.m. with the full
    brunt of the weekend announcing its presence like a proud lion on a
    hilltop

    "wait here" he says and he gives me something very nice and potentially
    lethal and shunts me into a small empty room with a strictly-decorative
    deadbolt on the door 

    it is hot as blazes 

    we were careening 

    "you can pick your friends," that's what people's mothers are always
    telling them when they're growing up 

    listen to me: 

    no you can't 

Video:
    sometime in march this space will feature an animated video for the song
    *Letter from Belgium*

    between now and then it will mainly be just words

    and when I say "mainly," I mean "only"

    these words may change once or twice between now and then

    and then again, they may not

    the only way to know for sure is to check periodically

    if all goes according to plan

    this page will at some point feature the transcripts

    *of radio transmissions from beyond the grave*

    stay tuned

Book:
                                        we shall all be healed

    *this is a true story*

    When I was eighteen years old I lived in an apartment at 253 N. Broadway
    in Portland

    You know that Neil Young song about North Ontario where he says "all my
    changes were there"? that's me at 253 n. broadway only few of the changes
    were good

    I moved to the building from a place just a few blocks away where the
    landlords were thieves: they'd stolen a checkbook from a drawer above my
    bed and had written themselves all kinds of checks

    I knew it was them because when I got the cancelled checks back they were
    addressed to the landlords and signed with a signature that didn't even
    remotely resemble mine

    Also, get this: the actual theft took place while I was asleep on my couch
    inside the apartment

    Not wanting to let them know that I was onto them, I just moved out all of
    a sudden-like

    Hired a friend to help me carry my stuff down the street and by the end of
    the weekend I was all set up

    Glass end-tables, mohair couch, Tiffany lamp, great oak desk

    The new room was in the basement

    A steam pipe ran through the bathroom. If you ran a hot bath in there the
    temperature would get up to a hundred degrees at least

    My sickness and I were like best friends in an underground treehouse, and
    we held on for eight months

    Just last year I went back there and stood tentatively at the front door,
    gazing in through the glass gazing in through the glass gazing in through
    the glass and wondering if the ghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhosts were still there

    That's when somebody who lives there now came out, bid me good morning,
    and proceeded down the carpeted stairs to the sidewalk, the door swinging
    very slowly shut behind him

    *I slipped in*

    Got into the elevator, unchanged since my tenure there in the stomach of
    that still-unclassified beast, and took it down ONE FLOOR

    Sometimes when you go back to the scene of your great unbecoming collapse,
    the place seems emptied of its totemic power: somehow the blood-rich light
    has drained away from it and you realize that things don't make bad
    scenes, people do

    Well

    In the present case this occasional rule did not apply, I can tell you
    that much

    I made my way down to my former door which still bore scuff-marks I'd put
    there myself, and stood before it, a supplicant before an idol

    Waiting for something

    Waiting for it to speak

    Waiting for the moment when the building and the street and the town would
    let go of me at last

    Waiting for you

                                        the end

Filmstrip:
    [text surrounding sequential photos in form of old film strip]

    1. Attach a bell to every dead friend you have

       Blow a disco whistle once for each friend who you know will eventually
       need his own bell

       Count the bells and write the number you come up with somewhere on your
       body

    2. Go to church

       Say hello to the people who say hello to you

       Think about your secret

       Keep your secret secret

    3. Return to the scene of the crime

       Say out loud, "I got away with it"

       Listen to the sound of your own voice

    4-5. Get married

       Move to the Isle of Man

       Send postcards to all your old friends telling them they must come and
       visit

       When the postcards all return to you marked "moved - no forwarding
       address"

       Place them in a drawer

       Tell your wife or husband how this makes you feel

    6. Remove the bells from your dead friends

       carry them with you in your pocket

       they will jingle as you walk down the street

       walk down the street

       whistle

Sketch:
    [text accompanied by drawings, paginated]

    1. THEN OF ALL THE PEOPLE IN THE WORLD THERE WAS DAN, OH MY GOD HOW CAN I
    EVEN BEGIN TO TELL YOU ABOUT DAN

    2. DAN WAS LIKE A MACHINE THAT NO-ONE HAD PUNCHED THE RIGHT CODES INTO,
    AND SO HE DIDN'T KNOW HOW TO WORK RIGHT

    3. I WANT TO BE HONEST WITH YOU ABOUT THIS, BUT IT'S HARD

    4. DAN WAS BRAD'S BOYFRIEND, BUT IF YOU SO MUCH AS SUGGESTED THAT DAN WAS
    GAY, HE WOULD PULL A GUN ON YOU

    5. I KNOW BECAUSE I SAW THE GUN

    6. IT SAT ON THE COFFEE TABLE SOMETIMES JUST TO MAKE BRAD NERVOUS

    7. THERE ARE SO MANY THINGS I WANT TO TELL YOU ABOUT DAN BUT I CAN'T

    8. BUT I REMEMBER THE MORNING HE LEFT

    9. HE CAME DOWNSTAIRS TO SAY GOODBYE

    10. HE WASN'T REALLY SURE WHERE HE WAS GOING

    11. IMPLICIT IN THE MOMENT WAS THE FACT THAT WE WOULD NEVER SEE EACH OTHER
    AGAIN

    12. GOODBYE, DAN

Recherche (URL: circuit.html):
    [text accompanied by images, paginated]

    Dave said he had to stop by some guy's apartment to conduct a little
    business.

    It was an apartment up past he Department of Justice building. I didn't
    know they had apartments in that neighborhood and in fact they didn't. It
    was a motel. I didn't know there were any motels up that way either.
    (image: shirt with text, "What would Jesus _not_ do?")

    Haha "neighborhood."

    Haha "motel."

    It was a huge eggshell-beige building that wouldn't have looked
    out-of-place if you'd picked it up and then set it down right in the
    middle of the god-damned Eastern bloc.

    Dave went in through the mesh-grated front entrance, which was not locked.
    I didn't know any of the people who lived there so I stayed outside.

    Wide awake in the buzzing center of the dream.

    About a year later I would run into a guy named Gary real random-like in
    almost the exact same spot. Gary would be dressed in a small black skirt
    and some vintage furs. Some old troll would come past looking for cheap
    trade, and Gary would

    fall to his hands and knees

    didn't say nothing.

    Back in Dave country I was watching when he finally emerged from that
    building which I will see again in Hell.

    All smiles.

    "You wanna go back to your place for a while?"

    Didn't mean what some other people would have meant.
    Small favors, thank heaven, et cetera.

    Four months to go.
